From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes. Our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 47. Recorded live Wednesday,
January 21st, 2009. Support for handsome. And
this is provided by teller
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with developer, Noah Richards about the
new WPF based text editor
in visual studio, 2010, Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. I'm up
here hanging out for a
couple of days on the
Redmond campus of Microsoft. I
come up here every month
or so and wander around
the hallways. And every once
in a while, I just
pop into an office and
find out what someone's working
on and I've hit the
Motherlode today because I'm talking
with a software development engineer,
Noah Richards. Who's one of the,
how many developers, about eight
developers, eight developers working on
the new editor for dev
visual studio, 2010. Yes. Don't
call it dev 10. We
call it a visual studio.
We call it dev 10.
You call it demo, but
you, the listener, you don't
get to call it that
now. So why would I
want to talk about a
text editor? Well, I think
this is pretty interesting and
I wanted to talk to
an actual, you said you
called yourself earlier a lowly.
Yeah. I'm just one of
the lowly coders code as
they say. So you work
on the WPF editor. So
this means that the editor
in visual studio 2010 is
different and we've seen things
about this and if people
are enthusiastic, they can, they
can search around and they
can find channel nine videos.
They can, they can piece
together. What's going on here.
What's happening with the editor,
the text editor in visual
studio, 2010. So for visual
studio, 2010, we, we started
over and we wrote the
editor from the ground up
with accessibility in mind. And
so like you said, the
editor, it uses WPF now,
which is of course different
and we're all managed code.
We write almost entirely in
C sharp and we use
something called the managed extensibility
framework, math. Yeah, Glen locksmith,
Glen blocks. I love that
guy for our ex sensibility
story. So anyone would just,
you just want me to
hop into these, maybe talk
about, I mean, I want
to understand like a couple
of things about this editor.
So when we pay the
editor, we're talking about all
of the typing of texts,
the rendering of text, the
scroll that, that, that whole
kind of area that lives
inside of visual studio. Yes.
That's what we're talking about.
So somebody is in a,
in looking at an, a
solution Explorer and they double
click on a file. And
somehow visual studio decides that
this is a file that
you're going to be handling.
Yep. And then what happens
is the text editor is
at a DLL. I mean,
I mean, I imagine it
from the point of that,
I've got the visual studio
IDE open, I double click
on it on a CS
file. Sure. And what happens?
So there are, there are
two pieces to the editor.
There's what we call the,
the platform piece or the
piece. And you might've
noticed if you use expression
blend, or if you downloaded
the new wind seven beta
and you open up the
PowerShell ISE, the integrated scripting
environment, you'll see, that's our
editor in both applications. That's
our editor. And we're kind
of being hosted in, in
more than that. Those are
just the ones off the
top of my head, but
yeah, And that's just like
a DLL that they benefit.
It's a, it's a set
of DLLs. It's about, they're
a couple separated for various
reasons, but there are a
couple of DLLs. And then
inside of visual studio, we
have a package that takes
care of loading us up
and then provides a, what
we call a shim layer
on top of our, our
rehost double part that allows
old native clients to continue
calling the editor as if
it was still the old
editor. So the shim is,
it's just that it's a
lie that it's extensibility to.
It says, I'm still here.
I'm still, nothing's changed. It's
IVs, text, whatever IBS thing.
Sure. And then they're, they're
really, there are two parts
of that. There's the integration
piece, which talks to VMs.
And then there's the shim
piece, which is like you
said, it's the lie that
we tell to our older,
older native clients, but it's,
it's, it's there so that
you have a, a more
gradual path to move forward.
Right. So this doesn't necessarily
so rewriting an entire edit
doesn't necessarily break some add
in that I wrote earlier.
Right? Absolutely. Okay. That's cool.
So I double click on
the CS file. Visual studio
says, Hey, it's text, editor
time. Your package shows up.
And then there's a lot
involved here. There's the deciding
of the viewport. You know,
whether this is a really
long file or not, maybe
this is a megabyte of
text. So there's memory management
in texting, dealing with the
text editor. There's all the
syntax highlighting. Is that your
responsibility Part of it? So
we still use the language
services that are provided linked
to C-sharp team as their
language service and the VB
team. We have a subsystem
that they talk to and
that's how they provide coloring.
And that's, that's also new
and, and, and vs 10
recently called classification where people
get to provide things. And
they say, this span of
text is a, is a
key word, the span of
text, isn't a number, what's
that word you're saying, classification
should this band of tech
span, span of text, the
span of text is, is
such and such a thing.
And then we have another
service sitting there, which says,
Oh, well, keyword is equivalent
to this WPF solid color
brush. And then that comes
in, in the top of
the UI layer and says,
Oh, keywords are blue. These
services, you calling them services.
So you have a kind
of service oriented architecture, but
this is all in proc
though. Yes. Yes. It's all
improv. So, so yeah. So
at, at, at the level
of math of the six
sensibility framework, we have all
these different sub systems that
said classification is one of
them. Things like, like the
little squiggly as you get
in the editor, that's that
uses another subsystem to do
that. And basically we have
these services that we provide
and we use them internally
to build the application, but
they're all, they're all public,
they're all services that you,
as an extender can come
in and say, well, I
want to provide my own
squiggles. So you can implement
this, this interface. And so
one of the things about
the new editor I like
to think of is kind
of democratizing it, that you
can write an extension that
adds new colors to C
sharp and plays along with
the C sharp language service.
You could add an extension
that say, you want to
add, spellchecking two comments. You
can do that. You can
write an extension that spellchecking,
and then puts a squiggle
under the spell check and
under the misspelled words. And
that would all just work.
Okay. So then maybe I
wasn't thinking about this, right?
Let's think about it in
terms of a line of
text. Sure. Okay. So, I
mean, I've got a line
of text, right? I've got
a four loop or something
like that. How many different
things are involved in the,
in the ultimate rendering of
the correct colors? A couple
of squiggles on the single,
what do you call it?
A span of text. Right.
So, okay. So this is
the life cycle of that
space. There are, there are
three primary layers to the
editor. There's the data layer,
which is text buffers. And
then when I say with
things like span, there, there
are things called spans and
so on and so forth.
And these refer to the
text and the text buffer.
And I'll pause for a
second because I do want
to say one of the
cool things about the new
editor is that all the
data structures in the buffer
level are functional or immutable.
So when text changes, if
the text at any point
in time is what's called
a text snapshot, and you
can grab this tech snapshot,
you can do stuff with
it. Like if you're a
language, you can build an
AST, you can see what's
there without worrying about anybody
else coming in and changing
it. So one of the
things is there's not a
lot of locking anymore. You
don't have to lock, get
a read, lock, read the
thing, make sure nobody edits
it. You just grab the
snapshot. When somebody makes a
change to the buffer, we
generate a new snapshot and
then move forward to that.
And if you ask for
the current snapshot at that
point, you'll get the new
one. But so almost all
of the, the world of
the editor talks in terms
of these snippets, You're getting
around the issues of concurrency
that with just the issue
of you're getting a moment
in time, Right? And this
was, this was a huge
problem. We don't about a
huge farm. It was a
problem in visual studio past
where language services and consumer
like third party senators had
to do this, too. If
you wanted to get a
copy of the text, you
would take the entire text
bopper and copy it into
a string and look at
it yourself. Yeah. Just so
you wouldn't Right. And that's
where you'd see things like,
you know, five megabyte file
might be fine, but then
as soon as you put
on, you know, Fred's third
party, extension things start to
slow down. It turns out
he's not dealing with that
size of files. Well, and
it's, it was hard to
do. It's a little bit
easier to do now. So,
so we have this that's
the data level. And above
that, we have the logic
level where things like classification
live. So it's something that
classification, isn't really a UI
concept. It's something that you
add on top of the
data. So just the fact
that the text is a
keyword has nothing to do
with the fact that it's
blue that comes from this
is metadata, which has metadata
that you add. And we
have, we have basically two
subsystems that kind of talk
in terms of this classification
and another one called tagging,
which is, is similar. It's
a way of saying like
this piece of text is
a squiggle. That's a type
of tag that you get
to put as an error
on Aerotek. And then on
top of that is the
UI layer. And that's the
layer that we have an
implementation of this layer. It's,
it's kind of agnostic. So
you can have UI without
knowing that it's WPF, but
then there's a UI specific
one. And so when you
have a line of text
or the text view, what
it does is it gets
the current snapshot. When the
snapshots change, it goes through
and it goes into WPF
and render some of this
text. And then it asks
for all the classifications over,
it asks for all the
different tags over it. There
is like squiggles, there's a
thing called a squiggle visual
manager that, okay, So then
the, at the second layer
at that, what I'm calling
this, this metadata layer, you
call it the data there.
That's where things like things
like background compilation of, you
know, errors that have showed
up spellcheck. That's where I
hook in where I'm saying
that this is wrong. I
want to squiggle there to
indicate something about this, but,
but not necessarily saying, I
want a visual squiggle. I
want to tag this with
the information, say, this is
an error. This is an
error. And in visualization of
that error is a totally
separate thing. Right. We try
to keep that separate as
much as possible, just because
it makes things cleaner and
easier to work with. And
yeah. So that's the, that's
the logic layer. Okay. It,
so when I heard that
we were writing the whole
thing over again, like you
said, at the beginning, it's
been done from, from scratch.
It looks the same though.
You know, it was like,
Oh yeah, I saw the
CTP and it's like, Oh,
we're writing, we're doing all
this work. It's totally written
from scratch. And it looks
exactly the same. And it's
always that, you know, that
joke about rewriting stuff. And
you get exactly where you
were a couple of years
ago. So that we're here.
We are. It looks exactly
the same. Yep. And we
did this though. It was
extensibility. Yes. So, so the
way we look at it
is that we want it
to be extensible. It's, it's
very extensible and it's built
so that you can do
wherever, wherever your mind takes.
You, you know, you can
build a visualization in WPF
that does, does whatever you
want it to do. But
in terms of when talk
about dev 10 and delivering
and shipping and visual studio,
we had a priority that
we didn't want to, we
certainly didn't want to degrade
the experience. And so we,
we tried very hard as
best we could without sacrificing
anything, to, to maintain the
same type of functionality that
you're used to. So that
a guy who sits down
and he just got vs
2010 or no, his, his
company just switched to BS
2010. You go type in
the editor and doesn't need
to know that it's a
deal. So he's not going
to notice the difference if
he doesn't actually go looking
for anything. Yeah. Right. If,
if he doesn't have anything
else, he'll notice, he might
notice the one thing everybody
notices is that the selection
box has a gradient in
it. That's one of the
only visible things like the
outlining might look a little
bit different. Some of the,
you know, the glyphs graphics
and graphics might look a
bit different, but the functionality
we're trying to maintain. Hmm.
So you're not trying to
freak people out with some
dramatic change, but you said
that earlier, speaking of freaking
people out, you said you
could do whatever you want,
as far as your imagination.
I mean, what are some
of the wacky stuff that
people have been writing to
see how far they can
push this? So we had
a, there was a guy
on one of our partner
teams who he built visualization
that he used some of
the existing visual studio stuff
to figure out where methods
were and then he made
it. So when you clicked
on the method, it would
highlight the method and then
pop up this, this rich
edit control that says, you
know, like who last edited
the method and code coverage
numbers and the data, the
data for his presentation was
all made up. But the
idea is that at the
end of the day, the
view is just, it's just
a WPF element. It's just
a UI element. And you
can do, you can hook
into the editor various levels.
And like, like you said,
one of things you can
do is that you can
provide these arrow tags, but
then on the top, you
can provide any type of
visualization you want. So we've
had ideas for things like
let's pretend every time you
say new solid color brush,
we replace whatever is in
that constructor and solid color
brush with a color picker.
Like we can do that.
We can stick it right
in the editor. Like you
could write that. You can
write things that say, Hang
on a second. So you,
yeah. Cause we've said new
solid color brush before, but
you're saying that you're writing
some code, you're sitting down
and you're going, you know,
VAR B equals new solid
color brush, open paren. And
at that point We could,
you show a Coke. You
could write, you could write
an extension that, that does
any of this stuff. You
could write an extension that
says you create a UI
element. Well, why don't we
just show it in the
editor? You can write an
extension like a swash. Sure.
You can, you can, you
can write an extension that
effectively takes some piece of
the editor and says, why
want to represent it this
way instead? Hi, this is
Scott coming at you from
another place in time. Are
you looking for an object,
relational mapping tool for mission
critical projects using lincoln.net. I
wanted to share with you
genome specifically designed for developing.net
enterprise applications. Genome is a
mature link, integrated ORM tool.
It's been employed in numerous
large scale projects. The last
six years genome was created
for the.net platform as opposed
to being a port from
Java. And it's thrived on
platform innovation since.net. 1.0 genome
has supported links since its
CTP release. In may of
2006. It offers several unique
features, such as encapsulation and
reuse of linked queries and
expressions. You can really fully
harness the power of link
while benefiting from your database
platforms. Unique features, compose complex,
linked queries, decompose the query
logic and your domain model
link supports all the major
database platforms you find in
enterprise environments like SQL server,
but also Oracle and IBM
DB too. And find out
more about how genome integrates
tightly with visual studio and
what tools do you know
offers to reduce development time@tinyurl.com
slash try genome G N
O M E, where you
can also download a free
and fully functional trial version.
I hope you enjoy it.
So how do I get
the notification? It's one thing
to, to describe the different
layers that you just said,
but it's another thing to
be notified that it's really
my opportunity to jump in
Well, so this is why
we have, so we kind
of separate these math components
into two things. There are
services that we, that we
kind of provide. So there's
a fine service and a
search service. And then they're
extensions that will go and
like grep over these people
who provide these extensions at
various points in time. So
classification is one of those.
Every time, every time a
view comes up, we'll go
in and we'll say, okay,
well this is a C-sharp
file. Let me find all
the people who say, well,
I provide classification for C-sharp.
Likewise. You can say, well,
tell me every time a
view is created and the
content type of the thing
is VB or the content
type of the thing is
C sharp. And then you
can sit and you can
listen to, Oh, the buffers
have changed. Oh, the view
has changed. Do I want
to do we just subscribed
to, and you say, just,
you know, just let me
know whenever things happen. And
then I can decide, do
I want to add my
thing here? We have this
general idea of things called
adornments, which are these, these
UI things. And you can
say, Oh, well, I want
to put this adornment here.
I want to put, think
of like the three, the
three dots for when you
are, when you have collapsed
texts and an outlining region,
that's just an adornment that
we stick in the text
and you can write that.
And in fact, with the
way outlining works, you can
replace that if you don't
like that three dot, or
you can provide your own
outlining regions because outlining is
yet another one of these
things that under the covers
uses these logic subsystems tagging.
And I can go in
and say, well, in my
C-sharp files, I want to
be able to collapse such
and such a thing. So
you write a component that
whenever C-sharp files open up,
you say this region is
also a collapsible, And I'm
starting to think about what
I'm trying to think of,
what kinds of things that
someone could do if they,
if they were designing like
a language, but they knew
that an editor that was
extensible existed ahead of time,
like a, you know, a
multidimensional raise are no fun,
of course, right? But tiny
Excel spreadsheets embedded in your
editor are cool. Sure. So
why not do that? It'll
be interesting. If third parties
jump in and decide to
like make the, you know,
the via super crazy power
pack thing, you know, remember
when debugger visualizers came out
and everyone went just, you
know, nuts coming out with
all sorts of visualizers for
things, they can do the
same thing now. So the
reason why I get so
excited about the new editor
is because we talk about
the editor is public surface
area. It's not like there's,
there are these magical things
that we use underneath. And
those are the powerful things.
And then we show you
some little pieces at the
top, right? We implement everything.
Like you can write a
classifier, we write classifiers, it's
all the same. You write
a tagger for something. We
write a tagger for something.
I mean, they're using meth.
Of course there are like,
there are some things that
are implementation details of something
or other, but every, you
can provide any extension that
we can provide. You can
consume any service that we
consume. And every one of
our pieces are designed in
this way. And that the,
you know, something that uses
classification, it's not part of
classification. It consumes the classification
service and uses that. So
everything is very loosely connected
in that way. No, I
mean, this is random, but
how, how long have you
worked here? About a year
and a half. Okay. So
you're, let's just phrase it
this way. You're not an
old dude. Yes. And you're
not an old dude, not
just in age, but in
that kind of like been,
been here for 20 years,
kind of old dude in
a way, certainly. And you're
on a team, you said
seven or eight people who
work on the editor. Yeah,
probably. Yeah. There's probably, I
feel bad if I give
the wrong number of people,
you know, a handful of
devs, probably. There's probably about
20 people. Total project managers,
developers, testers that work on
the editor. And are, are
they mostly newer Microsoft employees
or are they old dudes?
We got one guy who,
who got his 15 year,
not too long ago, but
other than him, it's mostly
a bunch of young guys.
We got one. I mean
our architect who, who playfully
refers to me as the
one of those open source
communists and see, this is
what I was kind of
going at All this stuff
about like, Oh yeah, let
them go nuts. Total extensibility
seems kind of not Microsofty
I guess. I mean, I
I've heard that. I mean,
I'm not trying to, when
I say, Oh, I want
to make sure that the
listeners understand when I say
old, dude, I'm not talking
about old in age or
even old in seniority. I'm
talking about old and mind.
Right. I've met a lot
of 23 year olds that
were old in their minds.
You know what I mean?
But this seems to be
a very relaxed and mellow,
like, Oh yeah, let them
have that as an extensibility
point. Right? You, you would
be surprised. I mean, so
people are really excited about
the, the community that we
can create from this about
letting people have the power
to create whatever they want
and not restricting them. And
I mean, our partners tell
us the same thing. Our
partners, outside of visual studio,
like blend, like they blend
and PowerShell. They tell us,
you know, they, they love
that. They can just, they
can take this editor and
mold it into whatever they
want it to be. I
think about my, you know,
my good friends at like
dev express, like code rush,
and code rush has been
doing like, like what? I
can only describe as impossible.
Yes. Oh yeah. You know,
half a decade with the
old editor and when the
new editor came out, I
was like, Oh no, what
does this mean for code
rush? I'm starting to realize
more and more as I
dig into it, that they're
going to be able to
go Bonkers. So, and we've,
we've been working with, we've
been working with all these
great, all these great companies
that are making these. And
like you said, it really
is the things they do
are really, they're impossible. The
hoops, the hurdles, they have
to jump over to do
it, to get what they
have to do for some
of the, like the really
cool visualizations it's, it's painful.
And, you know, we showed
them this stuff. And personally,
I was wondering the same
thing. Are they going to
be that we're making it
so easy, but no, they
come around and they're like,
this is, it's so much
fun. I mean, we we've
heard from various people, you
know, it's, it's so much
fun to work with. It's
so much easier. Yeah. They
love that. It's managed code.
I mean, that's one of
those And you, like you
said, and, and it's, it's,
it's fast as it was
before. I mean, people, people
still people still years and
years later think that managed
code can't run fast. Oh
yeah. But that's just, it's
not the case. I remember
one of the things that
I wrote when I first
got here was a different
thing service. So we have
a text, a generalized differencing
service, and we do this
text, differencing in the editor
for various things and different
thing in the editor for
various things. And I wrote
it in C sharp and
a lot of people were
saying, you know, Oh, well
it's managed code. It's going
be horrible. And comparing it
against like the new, you
know, Def it's little bit
slower because startup costs for,
for.net. But man, it's really,
there's, there's not a lot
of difference once you get
into it. Now, now one
of the other things I
wanted to ask is that,
you know, how do you
develop an editor in the
same editor, I assume, are
you using dev tend to
develop DenTek dev 10. Yeah.
Do you have like host
applications that host this thing?
Or do you have two
versions of visual studio running
at the time? I mean,
we have, like, we have
test harnesses type things that,
like I said, cause it's
rehost double. We can run
it. But because we rely
on, like I said, these,
these language services that have
to be in visual studio,
they depend on, on the
visual studio ecosystem. Right. Do
you have to test a
lot of our stuff in
VR? So it does, it
does get hairy when somebody
checks in the thing that
breaks the whatever, and now
you can't use it anymore,
but we try to be
pretty good about making sure
that we maintain quality. I
mean, so one of the
things we care a lot
about is, is unit testing
and code coverage on editor
team. And, you know, we
get our daily code coverage
builds and it's important that
we keep it at a
certain level and we get
a lot of benefit out
of it. Do you do
test driven development? You write
your test first? No, not
yet. You feel bad? Well,
I was trying to think
if anybody, I mean, individual
people might Like, you know,
watch it fail and then
fix it and then watch
it succeed. I dunno if
anybody, I don't, I don't
know. I'm trying to think
anybody individually. I don't think
anybody individually does that, but
we do spend a lot
of time on it and
part, because a lot of
our stuff is functional. Data
structures is immutable. It makes
unit testing a lot easier
because you have to worry
less of it. So when
we get into testing the
interface, user interface testing, and
this integration testing, it gets
a little more complicated, but
when we're testing like the
buffer and snapshots and all
these other things we built
down there and there's, there's
a, a wealth of, of
things that we've built down
in our data level for
people to discover. But it's
so easy to test because
it's just functional immutable data
structures. Now, how often are
your tests really unit tests
versus integration tests or orchestration
tests where you've got a
bug, but it only happens
when you've got these subsystems
all working together and you
bring it to you. Part
of the nice thing again,
about being about being functional
and immutable is that our
unit tests are pretty good.
A coverage of what's going
to happen even when you
integrate. So we do have
like, I mean, we do
have integration tests that effectively
do the, make sure that
when the selection moves here
and you press delete or
you press whatever that all
these things happen and all
these subsystems work together. Right.
And make sure that this
text turns blue when, when
whatever, but we don't rely
on those heavily. We rely
mostly on our unit test
to tell us what's going
on. You test those kinds
of things. Like the example
you just gave, you know,
hit, delete this turns, blue
hit delete. Again, it turns
black. Is that something that
you can test at the
data layer of your three
layers or do you actually
have an orchestration and you
watch it happen on the
screen. And you're, you know,
an invisible hand is typing
delete Test. So we do
some of our UI tests
do bring up UI and
you can see like IntelliSense
or you can, it opens
up the thing and you
can see the dropdown open
up. But our, I mean
our data test Taylor tests,
our data things we can
test at the logic level.
We can test the classification,
does what it says. We
can test that you have
three classifiers and they all
provide things. And at the
top of all, all of
these buffers, you know, it
comes out the way you
expect. And then at some
level of the UI on
top of that is just,
you know, we test to
make sure that the translation
from classification type to classification
format, this WPF thing works
and you stick it all
together and it, it works.
You think you have, like,
you have thousands of tests
at this point. How long
does it take to run
all the tests To run
all of our unit tests?
Maybe 10 minutes. So there's
a lot of tests. Yeah.
It's not like you don't
like build, test, build, test,
build test, because it takes
10 minutes to run them.
Right. I mean, so we
can, because everything is very
localized and make a change
to classification. It's really easy
to run the classification unit
tests, but yeah, the, the
editor unit tests and integration
tests, and we split them
out separately too. Like we
have texts, tests and language
tests and various levels there.
Probably about 10 minutes. Yeah.
Okay. There are a couple
more questions this, as we
wrap up here, so what
did you work on today?
Like what code did you
write today? Or what did
you fix today? See a
fixed two different bugs. And
recently I've been working a
lot on performance. Okay. So
a lot of profiling and
trying to figure out, making
sure, like, like I said,
that we maintain your expectations
and there's a city of
2010 And are those expectations,
like things like I open
a 55 Meg text file
and it was slow. Is
it that kind of thing?
Yeah. Those are large file
scenarios are absolutely some of
the things that we look
at. And, and we're, we're
very, we're very careful that
the relative performance of some
component isn't relative to file
size, it's either relative to
what's visible or relative to
what changed or relative to
things like this. A lot
of it is just, you
know, trying to localize and
minimize the impact of various
actions that you take in
the editor. Very cool. And
I assume there'll be like
a hole at some point
in the future. There'll be
a whole SDK and anyone
who is interested in this
can get involved in and
people can start writing. Oh,
absolutely. And like you said,
for, you know, if you,
if you get the CTP,
you can, I mean, the
editors there now. Okay. So
they can start in any
way it was using meth
in the CTP. So you
can start doing that now
To, to start building your
own extensions. We have some
samples in there. So they
show you The heroic sensibility
samples already in the seat.
We have various various things.
I know one of the
things we showed, one of
the apps we built is
a different thing. Application where
it shows, it's just, it's
an inline difference. So you
know, a difference, two things,
and you can edit it
and type in it. And
you get all of your,
you get IntelliSense, you get
in the middle and in
the middle of your desk,
you get it all like
that. So I mean, something
like that's a little more
complicated, but these are all
things that we absolutely want
people to download and try.
Like, for me, that's the
value of, of, of, of
a platform is how much
it enables people to build
on it. Yeah. See, I've
always wanted to have my
buddy of mine named Travis,
built a thing called documenter
that basically takes the XML
help and shows you what
it would look like. If
you ran it through like
an Docker skin sandcastle, I've
always wanted to have a
rich text, MSDN style editor
overlaid over my XML docs.
I would just type it
and then it would just
make the right XML. Absolutely.
Totally. So that's, that's, that's
something, in fact, that's something
like, people here have been
like, this is something we
need to do. This is
something we should play with.
I mean, people here, we,
we have these application building
weeks and people just get,
they get so excited, like
think about the cool things
that you can build now
that you don't have to
worry about. It's nice to
look at an API and
not go, Oh man, I
can't do that. You know
what I'm saying? Yeah. But
to see a whole, a
whole object model, a series
of subsystems, a nice a
plugin, a management system, like
meth, I think I'll have
Glenn block on the show
next and he can talk
about Memphis has been fun
working with meth. Yeah. I
mean, so we've, we've yeah.
We've, we've gone through a
few different like component systems.
As, as, as they've been
building, they rough math and
we pick it up and
we give them feedback and
they're all great guys. They,
I mean, they Was, it
was that a big deal
to say, all right, we're
taking a dependency on meth.
Now from the beginning, the
editor has, has said, we're
going to, we're going to
be effectively using a component
system. We're going to push
ourselves into components. We're going
to separate as we need
to. And so math was
kind of just the next
iteration in this stuff we
had been, we had been
working with for so long.
Cool. All right. Well, thanks
so much nor Richard for
talking to me today about
the new WPF base editor
in dev 10 and visual
studio, 2010. Thanks very much.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and I'll
see you again next week.